Take-Home Exercise — Tech Lead Hiring
TierForge: Resilient Bulk Store Scoring & Tiering
1. Context
You're building TierForge, a service that ingests a large list of stores, enriches each one with a
few business metrics via a slow, rate-limited, and occasionally unreliable API, then scores and
tiers every store (Large / Medium / Small) based on user-configurable weights.
That enrichment API is one we provide and candidates run entirely on their own machine — no
internet access, account signup, or API key involved. It's built to behave like a flaky third-party
dependency (latency, rate limits, random failures) purely so the resilience problem is real, not to
require any actual external integration.
The interesting part isn't the enrichment metrics themselves (we've synthesized those) — it's
building a job engine that reliably processes thousands of records against a flaky external
dependency, and a scoring layer that stays fast and re-runnable independent of that slow
ingestion.
2. What We're Evaluating
• Architecture — how cleanly the slow, unreliable enrichment step is separated from the fast,
deterministic scoring/tiering step.
• Resilience — how the system behaves under the failure modes described in Section 5
(timeouts, transient errors, a worker going silent, a systemically broken run).
• Concurrency correctness — safe parallel processing without lost or duplicated work.
• Code quality — readability, naming, error handling, consistency.
• Data modeling — how jobs, chunks/units of work, raw enrichment results, and computed
scores/tiers are represented in the DB.
• Tests — unit tests are not mandatory but are a strong positive signal, especially around
retry/backoff logic, the scoring formula, and tiering boundaries.
You're free to use AI tools while building this. The bar is on the output: code you can explain and
defend in a follow-up conversation, not just code that compiles.
Time box: 2–3 days of effort. See Section 6 for what's in vs. out of scope — this exercise is
intentionally meatier than a CRUD app, so scope discipline matters.
3. Tech Stack
• Frontend: React preferred (any modern framework is acceptable).
• Backend: Python or Node.js preferred.
• Database: PostgreSQL preferred (any SQL database is acceptable).
• The enrichment API: we provide this (see Section 5) — do not build your own.
4. Functional Flow
Step 1 — Upload Store List
• User uploads a CSV of stores (we provide a sample generator and a ready-made file — see
Section 5).
• Perform basic header validation before accepting the file, with clear errors on failure.
• Columns: store_id, store_name, address, city, state, country.
Step 2 — Run Enrichment Job

• On submit, a job is created that enriches every store by calling the provided Enrichment API
(Section 5), which returns estimated_monthly_footfall, estimated_monthly_revenue, and
store_size_sqft per store.
• The API is rate-limited and unreliable by design (see Section 5's failure modes) — your job
engine has to get all (or as many as possible) stores enriched despite that, without losing
track of what succeeded, failed, or is still pending.
• Expose a way to see job progress and, for any store that ultimately failed, why.
Example call (full contract is in the simulator's own README):
Request to POST /enrich:
{
"store_id": "ST000001",
"store_name": "Fresh Supermarket #1",
"address": "71 Church Street",
"city": "New Delhi",
"state": "Delhi"
}
Response:
{
"store_id": "ST000001",
"estimated_monthly_footfall": 18234,
"estimated_monthly_revenue": 142033.50,
"store_size_sqft": 6210
}
Step 3 — Configure Scoring & Tiering
• For each of the three enrichment metrics, the user sets via the UI: a threshold ("bar") — the
minimum value that counts as strong for that metric — and a weight (0–100%) for how
much clearing that bar contributes to the score. Weights should sum to 100%.
• The user also sets the score thresholds that separate Large / Medium / Small tiers (e.g. Large
≥ 70%, Medium ≥ 40%, else Small).
• Submitting this computes, for every successfully enriched store, a score and a tier:
◦ A store's score is the sum of the weights for every metric bar it clears (so it naturally

lands between 0% and 100%).

◦ The tier follows from comparing that score to the tier thresholds.
• This step must not call the Enrichment API again. It should run only against data already
fetched in Step 2, be fast, and be safely re-runnable any time the user changes bars,
weights, or tier thresholds (e.g. to see how the tier breakdown shifts).
Worked example. Say the user sets bars of footfall ≥ 15,000 / revenue ≥ 150,000 / size ≥ 8,000
sqft, weighted 50% / 30% / 20%, with tier thresholds Large ≥ 70%, Medium ≥ 40%, else Small:

Store Footfall Revenue Size
(sqft)

Clears
footfall
bar?

Clears
revenue
bar?

Clears
size
bar?
Score Tier

A 40,000 400,000 18,000 ✓ (+50) ✓ (+30) ✓ (+20) 100% Large
B 20,000 100,000 5,000 ✓ (+50) ✗ (+0) ✗ (+0) 50% Medium
C 2,000 20,000 9,000 ✗ (+0) ✗ (+0) ✓ (+20) 20% Small
That's the whole calculation — no normalization, no ranges, just checking each bar and adding
up the weights for the ones a store clears. Note Store C clears one bar (size) but still lands in

Small — clearing a bar only helps as much as its weight allows, so a single low-weight bar isn't
enough to reach Medium on its own.
Step 4 — Dashboard
• Job status: stores enriched / failed / pending, with failure reasons visible.
• Tier breakdown: count of Large, Medium, and Small stores.
• A store list showing name, category-equivalent metrics, computed score, and tier — filterable
by tier.
5. What We Provide
• Sample data: a generator script plus a ready-made 5,000-row CSV of synthetic stores
(attached separately).
• The Enrichment API simulator: a small standalone service (attached separately, with its own
README) that you run locally, entirely on your own machine — no internet connection,
account, or API key needed. Every candidate hits the same service with the same
documented behavior:
◦ Global rate limit: 5 requests/second. Calls beyond that get a 429.
◦ ~10% of calls return a 500 (transient — retryable).
◦ ~2% of calls take 45–60 seconds to respond before eventually succeeding — long
enough that a well-designed system should have already decided the original
attempt was dead and moved on, which means it has to handle the original
attempt's answer showing up late without corrupting anything.

◦ Results for a given store_id are deterministic — calling it twice returns the same

metrics.

Architecturally, treat it like a dependency you don't control — build real retry/backoff/timeout
handling rather than special-casing it just because you know it's local.
6. Scope
In scope (core):
• Steps 1–4, end to end, against a single job at a time.
• The job must tolerate: transient failures (retry, capped), a call that never comes back in
reasonable time (reclaimed and retried elsewhere, without double-counting if the original
call eventually does return), and a systemically broken run (stops retrying after a
bounded number of attempts rather than looping forever, with a clear terminal failure
state).
Out of scope (bonus, only if time remains):
• Running multiple enrichment jobs concurrently while still honoring one shared 5 req/sec limit
across all of them.
• Full resumability across a process restart — kill the server mid-job, restart it, and the job
continues without redoing completed work or losing track of in-flight work.
Please don't spend core time on the bonus items at the expense of the core flow.
7. Deliverables
• A git repo (zip or link) with backend + frontend.
• README.md with: setup/run instructions (including how to run the provided simulator
alongside your app), a short note on your architecture decisions, and any known
limitations or shortcuts taken due to time.
• Sample data files provided by us (attached separately).
• Tests, if included, runnable via a single documented command.